# matrasterlib

### A library of matlab functions for processing raster-format (spatially referenced gridded) satellite and climate model data in Matlab©
Archived version at: https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/188599563

matrasterlib is a package of Matlab functions that make it easier to work with gridded data (satellite and climate model data) in Matlab. The functions reduce the number of steps required to create a spatial reference object for gridded datasets. For example, climate model data provided as netcdf or h5 files typically include x/y or lat/lon vectors, and sometimes a 2-d grid, but most functions in Matlab's Mapping Toolbox require a spatial reference object stored as a structure, denoted as 'R' in the Matlab documentation, or a spatial reference vector denoted as 'refmat'. Secondly, Matlab separates Mapping Toolbox functions into two categories: 1) geographic vs planar, and 2) 'cells' vs 'postings'. The latter refers to whether the x/y or lat/lon coordinates define the centroid of the grid cells vs the cell edges, where centroids are typical for climate model data but cell edges are typical for satellite imagery. The third major problem that this package solves was what would be called co-registration in Python, and similarly re-sampling and clipping. Combining the three operations together is called 'align raster'. Example: for two gridded datasets with different spatial resolutions and extent, it should be easy to align them so that they have identical spatial resolution and extent. This requires resampling one raster to the grid of a target raster defined by a spatial referencing object. The functions in this package solve each of these problems, and include functions to quickly plot a raster and some additional support functions.

The primary functions that solve these problems are: 1) [rasterref.m](rasterref.m), and 2) [rasterinterp.m](rasterinterp.m). Both functions automatically determine whether the datasets are geographic or planar, thereby solving the second problem referenced above. Rasterref accepts 2-d grids of lat/lon or x/y coordinates and returns the R spatial referencing object. Rasterinterp accepts two different R objects where the first one defines the raster you want to align and the second defines the target raster to which you want to align the first one, and the raster itself, and returns the resampled/aligned raster. The function [rastersurf.m](rastersurf.m) lets you quickly plot the raster.
